## Docker Volumes.

A significant deficiency in our database-backed applications so far is that all data is lost when we recreate the container that runs the database server. Try the following sequence:

1. Start the User Profile web app using Docker Compose.
1. Edit the user profile via the web app at http://localhost:3000/
1. Delete the app's stack using Docker Compose.
1. (Re)Start the User Profile web app using Docker Compose.
1. Reload the web app at http://localhost:3000/. The profile data changes you made are lost!!

To fix this problem, we must bind a directory on the host computer's filesystem to Mongo's database folder inside the container. In `compose.yaml`, add a configuration setting to the mongodb service as follows:
~~~yaml
mongodb:
    container_name: mongoDB
    image: mongo:8.0-rc
    . . . . . as before . . . .
    networks:
         - profile-network
    volumes:    # NEW
          - ./data:/db/data  
~~~
The absolute path part of the volume must correspond to your host's pathname for this project. For example, assuming the project is located at /Users/diarmuidoconnor/devops/profile-app/, the volume entry would be:

> /Users/diarmuidoconnor/devops/profile-app/data:/db/data

The effect of the volume setting is as follows:
+ Add a folder called 'data' to your project. 
+ At container runtime, Docker binds this data folder to the /db/data folder inside the container. Mongo's default database folder is /db/data.

To prove the binding works, repeat the test sequence you performed at the start of this section. This time, the data willvpersist between restarts of the app stack.

We do not want the data folder included in any git commits. In the `.gitignore` file, add the following line:
~~~
/data
~~~

Commit the changes following commands:
~~~bash
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m "Use bind mounts to persist database data."
$ git push origin master
~~~