## Setup.

### GitLab repository.

In a browser tab, log in to your Gitlab account and create a new repository as follows:

+ Open the left-hand sidebar.
+ Click the plus (+) symbol, and select New Project/Repository. 
+ Select Create blank project.
+ Name the project 'docker-2048-game' (use this exact name).
+ Set the Visibility mode to Public. (Very important)
+ Untick both Project Configuration options.
+ Click the Create Project button.

Clone this repository to your local computer:
~~~bash
$ git clone [the URL of the new Gitlab repository]
~~~

For the sake of variety, we will use a different application as the context for this lab. Download [this archive][start], unzip it, and copy all its files into the `docker-2048-game` folder on your computer. The archive contains a web-based implementation of the [2048 Number Puzzle Game][game]. Import the `docker-2048-game` project into VS Code and type the following commands:
~~~bash
$ docker build -t  2048game:1.0  .
$ docker run -d -p 3000:80 --name 2048game  2048game:1.0
~~~
Notice in the project's Dockerfile that the game's image is based on the NGINX web server image, and all the project's files are copied to the web server's base directory (/usr/share/nginx/html).
  
In a browser tab, navigate to http://localhost:3000/ to play the game.

### Docker Hub repository.

Push this image to your Docker Hub account as follows:
~~~bash
$ docker login 
$ docker tag  2048game:1.0  [your-hub-username]/2048game:1.0
$ docker push  [your-hub-username]/2048game:1.0
~~~
Check the new repository in your Docker Hub account.

### Gitlab repository.

In VS Code, type the command:
~~~bash
$ git push --set-upstream origin main
~~~
Refresh the Gitlab repository page in the browser.


[game]: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.estoty.game2048&hl=en
[start]: ./img/start.zip