## Manual Deployment.

We will first __manually__ deploy the 2048 app to an EC2 virtual server on the AWS cloud platform and then create a CI/CD pipeline to automate any subsequent deployments of updates to the game. 

Open a browser tab and log in to your AWS account. We refer to this web-based client as the AWS Management Console. In the Management Console, type EC2 in the search box in the page header and select the EC2 service in the list of matches. The first task is to create a public/private __key pair__ to facilitate SSH communication later in this lab. Follow these steps:

1. Select Key Pairs in the left panel (under Network & Security)
1. Click the Create key pair button on the top right.
1. Enter cicdpair for the name.
1. Select RSA as the type.
1. Select .pem as the file format.
1. Click the Create key pair button.

A file named `cicdpair.pem` has been downloaded to your computer. It contains the private key of this key pair. __You will need this file later.__

The next task is to create an EC2 virtual machine instance to host our dockerized game application. Follow these steps in the Management Console:

1. Click Instances (under Instances) in the left-hand panel.
1. Click the Launch Instance button on the top right.
1. Enter DockerHost for the Launch template name.
1. In the Application and OS Images section,  under the Quick Start, select Amazon Linux
1. In the Instance type section, choose t2.micro as the type.
1. In the Key pair section, select cicdpair from the dropdown list.
1. In the Networking section, choose Create Security group and tick the options Allow SSH, Allow HTTP, and Allow HTTPS.
1. Scroll to the bottom of the page and click the Launch Instance button.

Refresh the web page, and the new EC2 instance named DockerHost should appear in the list of instances. Select the instance and then click the Networking tab underneath it. Copy the public IPv4 address shown for this EC2 instance, as we meed it later.  

We want to install the Docker platform on the EC2 instance. This can be achieved  by connecting to it remotely over SSH and manually installing it from the command line. On your laptop, open an ordinary terminal window and use the cd command to switch to the folder that contains the `cicdpair.pem` file you downloaded earlier. 

------------------------------

__Note:__ If you are working on a Mac OSX laptop, change the pem file's permissions before using ssh, as follows:
~~~bash
$ chmod 0400 ec2tutorial.pem
~~~
------------------------------

Use the SSH utility to connect to your EC2 instance as follows:
~~~bash
$ ssh -i cicdpair.pem  ec2-user@ec2_IP_address
~~~
Use the publiv IP address you copied earlier for your EC2 instance
e.g.  ssh -i ec2cdk.pem  ec2-user@34.244.156.17

Having successfully connected, type the following commands at the command prompt of the EC2 instance:
~~~bash
sudo yum update -y
sudo yum install docker -y
sudo systemctl start docker
sudo docker run hello-world    #  Default Docker Hub test image
sudo docker ps
sudo docker images
sudo systemctl enable docker
sudo usermod -a -G docker $(whoami)
docker run -d -p 80:80 --name 2048game myHubUsername2048game:1.0.    
# Use your Docker Hub username in the previous command.
~~~

The last command above started a docker container to run your 2048 image. In a new browser tab, navigate to the game using your EC2's IP address, e.g. http://18.201.141.214/

## Gitlab EC2 access.

We want to allow a Gitlab CI pipeline to interact with our EC2 instance over an SSH connection. To enable this interaction, we must:

+ Create a user using the AWS IAM service (Identity and Access Management).
+ Generate public and secret access keys for the user.
+ Configure a Gitlab pipeline with those access key credentials. Any permissions granted to the user account are transferred to the pipeline automatically. 

Follow these steps to create the user via the AWS Management Console:

1. Type IAM in the search box of the page header, and select IAM from the matching list.
1. Click Users in the left panel.
1. Click the Create User button on the top right.
1. Enter cicduser for username.
1. Click Next.
1. For Set Permissions, choose Attach policies directly.
1. In the Permissions policies block, type EC2Contain into the search box and tick AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryFullAccess from the matching list.
1. Click Next
1. Review your options and click Create User.

A list of users is displayed, including the one you just created. Continue with the following steps:

1. Click the cicduser user to display the full details.
1. Click the Security Credentials tab.
1. Scroll down to the Access keys block and click the Create access key button.
1. For use cases, choose Command Line Interface (CLI).
1. Tick the Confirmation box at the bottom and click Next.
1. Click Create access key.
1. Click the Download csv file button (essential) and click Done.

A file named `cicduser_accessKeys.csv` is in your laptop's Downloads folder. We will use it shortly. We will use it in the next section to configure a Gitlab CI pipeline.

[game]: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.estoty.game2048&hl=en