## Introduction to OCP/Kubernetes.

The Red Hat OpenShift® Container Platform (OCP) is an enterprise-standard Kubernetes platform. The Walton Institute has provisioned a Kubernetes cluster on an OCP installation for use by SETU Waterford students. In this lab, we will write and deploy manifests for the fundamental Kubernetes resources and use basic CLI commands to interact with the cluster's API server component.

### Setup OCP Account and CLI Tools

Most of the configuration, deployment & management work for the workloads (containers deployed to OCP) will be via the command line (CLI), so first set up your CLI tools and prep your environment.

Go to the [cluster dashboard][dash] and log in with the credentials already provided - it's safe to skip any security warnings you may receive in the response. In the OCP dashboard, expand the left panel, select Virtualisation => Overview, and click on the "Download the virtctl command-line utility" link (top right). Download the __oc - OpenShift Command Line Interface (CLI)__ tool for your platform and add it to the PATH environment variable, and test that the binaries can be seen:
~~~bash
$ oc version
~~~

The CLI is now ready for use. The user must first log in to the cluster before being able to administer any of the features. 
~~~
$ oc login https://api.ocp-setu.waltoninstitute.ie:6443 --username=<yourUserName>
~~~
Verify you are logged into the cluster:
~~~bash
$ oc whoami
$ oc cluster-info
$ oc get nodes
~~~.

### Start up.

Create a new folder (anywhere) called `k8s-basics` and import it into VS Code. Add a `.gitignore` file:
~~~
*.log
~~~
Create a local Git repository in the folder, and make the first commit to the repo.

[dash]: 
URL: https://console-openshift-console.apps.ocp-setu.waltoninstitute.ie/dashboards 
