## Setup.


### GitLab repository.

In a browser tab, log in to your Gitlab account. Using the left-hand sidebar on the Gitlab page, follow these steps:

+ Click the plus (+) symbol, and select New Project/Repository. 
+ Select 'Create blank project'.
+ Name the project 'docker-user-profile-app' (use this exact name)
+ Under Project URL, select your username as the project namespace
+ Set the Visibility mode to Public. (Very important)
+ Untick 'Initialize repository with a README; 
+ Click the Create Project button.

Clone this repository to your local computer:
~~~bash
$ git clone [the URL of the new Gitlab repository]
e.g. git clone https://gitlab.com/oconnordiarmuid/docker-user-profile-app
~~~
Copy all the files/folders from the Simple Profile web app project (from last week's lab) into your docker-user-profile-app project (except the node_modules folder), and import the latter into VS Code. Open an integrated terminal and type the commands:
~~~bash
$ git commit -m "Added app code"
$ git push origin main
~~~
(Gitlab prefers the name main instead of master for the default branch of a repository.)

### Docker Hub Token.

We can login to a Docker Hub account in interactive mode using a password or in programmatic mode using a __token__. You will use a token to allow a pipeline job login to your Hub account. In a browser tab, login to your Docker Hub account, click the avatar on the top right --> Select Account Settings --> Select Security (left sidebar) --> Click the New Access Token button --> Type GitLab CICD as the description --> Click Generate Token --> Copy the token value into the clipboard for later use.

### Docker Hub cleanup..

In your Docker Hub account, click the Repositories tab at the top --> Click the profile-app repository in the list --> Click the Settings tab --> Scroll to the bottom of the page --> lick the Delete repository button --> Complete the delete process.
