## Manual Deployment.

We will first __manually__ deploy the 2048 app to an EC2 virtual server on the AWS cloud platform. Then we can create a CI/CD pipeline to automate any subsequent deployments when the app is updated. 

Open a browser tab and log in to your AWS account. We refer to this web-based interface as the __AWS Management Console__. In the Management Console, type EC2 in the search box in the page header and select the EC2 service in the list of matches. In the page header, on the right hand side, make sure Ireland is selected as the region; if not, click the dropdown menu and select 'Europe (Ireland)'.

We need a public/private __key pair__ to facilitate SSH communication later in this lab. Follow these steps:

1. Select Key Pairs in the left panel (under Network & Security).
1. Click the Create key pair button on the top right.
1. Enter cicdpair for the name.
1. Select RSA as the type.
1. Select .pem as the file format.
1. Click the Create key pair button.

A file named `cicdpair.pem` has been downloaded to your computer. It contains the private key of this key pair. __You will need this file later.__

Next, create an EC2 virtual machine instance to host our dockerized game application. Follow these steps in the Management Console:

1. Click Instances (under Instances) in the left-hand panel.
1. Click the Launch Instance button on the top right.
1. Enter DockerHost for the Launch template name.
1. In the Application and OS Images section, under the Quick Start, select Amazon Linux.
1. In the Instance type section, choose t2.micro as the type.
1. In the Key pair section, select cicdpair from the dropdown list.
1. In the Networking section, choose Create Security group and tick the options Allow SSH, Allow HTTP, and Allow HTTPS.
1. Scroll to the bottom of the page and click the Launch Instance button.

Refresh the web page, and the new EC2 instance named DockerHost should appear in the list of instances. Select the instance and then click the Networking tab underneath it. Copy the public IPv4 address shown for this EC2 instance - we will meed it later. You have successfully created a cloud-based virtual machine (VM) running the Linux operating system. 

We must install the Docker engine/server and client on the EC2 instance by remotely connecting to it over SSH and using the command line. On your laptop, open an ordinary terminal window and use the cd command to navigate to the folder that contains the `cicdpair.pem` file you downloaded earlier. 

[__Note:__ If you are working on a Mac OSX laptop, change the pem file's permissions before using ssh, as follows:
~~~bash
$ chmod 0400 cicdpair.pem
~~~
]

Use the SSH utility to connect to your EC2 instance as follows:
~~~bash
$ ssh -i cicdpair.pem  ec2-user@ec2_IP_address
~~~
Use the publiv IP address you copied earlier for your EC2 instance
e.g.  ssh -i ec2cdk.pem  ec2-user@34.244.156.17

Having successfully connected, type the following commands at the command prompt of the EC2 instance:
~~~bash
$ sudo yum update -y
$ sudo yum install docker -y
$ sudo systemctl start docker
$ sudo docker run hello-world     # Check docker is working using a test image
$ sudo docker images
$ sudo systemctl enable docker
$ sudo usermod -a -G docker $(whoami)
$ exit
~~~
Reconnect to the EC2 instance from VS Code:
~~~bash
$ ssh -i cicdpair.pem  ec2-user@ec2_IP_address
~~~
At the terminal prompt inside the instance type the commands:
~~~bash
$ docker run -d -p 80:80 --name 2048game [Your-DockerHub-Username]/2048game:1.0    
# Use your Docker Hub username in the previous command.
$ exit
~~~
The first command above started a docker container to run your 2048 image. In a new browser tab, navigate to the game using your EC2's IP address, e.g. http://18.201.141.214/

[game]: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.estoty.game2048&hl=en