## Create CI Pipeline.

### Skeleton CI pipeline.
In VS Code, add a new file called `.gitlab-ci.yml` to the project's base folder. Copy the following code into the file:
~~~yaml
variables:
   APP_NAME: 'profile-app'
   DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME: 'doconnor' # Change to your Docker Hub username

stages:
   - build
   - test

build-and-publish:
  image: docker:20.10.16
  stage: build
  script:
     - echo "Build stage executed"
     - docker --version

base-test:
  stage: test
  image: docker:20.10.16
  before_script:
     - echo 'Execute before main script'
  script: 
     - echo "Reference a variable - ${APP_NAME} " 
~~~
[Note: You must set the DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME variable to your Docker Hub account username.]

The above file declares a pipeline consisting of two stages, each with one job. A job executes inside a Docker container, and in both cases, we use the same Docker image - a base Linux image with the Docker command line tool installed on top - see [here][dockeri]. The script commands executed inside the jobs are trivial in this example pipeline. In VS Code, type the following commands:
~~~bash
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m "Skeleton CI pipeline."
$ git push origin main
~~~

When the GitLab CI/CD service detects the YAML file's presence, a pipeline execution is triggered. To confirm this, in the browser tab displaying your Gitlab repository, open the left-hand sidebar by moving the mouse to the extreme left. In the sidebar, select Build -> Pipelines to show the status of the pipeline execution. After the pipeline has completed executing, click the tick mark for the pipeline's build stage and select the build-and-publish job of that stage. Gitlab displays the terminal output generated inside the Docker container that executed the job.

### Build Image Job.

In `.gitlab-ci.yml`, replace the build-and-publish job with the following:
~~~yaml
build-and-publish::
  image: docker:27.0.2-cli-alpine3.20
  services:
    - docker:27.0.2-dind-alpine3.20
  stage: build
  script:
     - echo "Build stage executing"
     - docker build -t ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME}/${APP_NAME} .
     - docker login -u ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME} -p ${DOCKER_HUB_TOKEN}
     - docker tag  ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME}/${APP_NAME}  ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME}/${APP_NAME}:${CI_COMMIT_SHORT_SHA} 
    - docker push ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME}/${APP_NAME}:${CI_COMMIT_SHORT_SHA}
~~~
The intent of this job is to build a fresh image of the user profile web app. The image's name is prefixed with your Docker Hub username and tagged with the SHA1 hash (short form) of the most recent Git commit, e.g.

>> doconnor/profile-app:715bae7f 

Before pushing the image, the pipeline job must log in to your Docker Hub account:

> docker login -u ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME} -p ${DOCKER_HUB_TOKEN}

Sensitive data, such as tokens, should not be hard-coded in the GitLab YAML file. Instead, we declare them as Gitlab __environment variable__. In the GitLab browser page, follow this sequence:

+ In the left-hand sidebar, select Settings -> CI/CD. 
+ Scroll down and click the Variables heading. 
+ Click the 'Add Variable' button on the right.

Complete the variable definition form as follows:

+ Set Type to Variable.
+ Set Environment to All.
+ Set Visibility to Visible. 
+ All Flag options should be unticked / blank.
+ Set Key to DOCKER_HUB_TOKEN.
+ Set Value to the Docker Hub token you generated earlier.
+ Click the Save Changes button and close the form. 
 
Returning to the pipeline YAML file, the docker login cammand in the build-and-publish job will now execute successfully:

>> docker login -u ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME} -p ${DOCKER_HUB_TOKEN}

---------------------------------

#### GitLab Services.

Note that in the build-and-publish job we use the services option:
~~~yaml
build-and-publish::
  image: docker:27.0.2-cli-alpine3.20
  services:
    - docker:27.0.2-dind-alpine3.20
  stage: build
  script:
    - . . . . . . . 
~~~

" When you configure CI/CD, you specify an image, which is used to create the container where your jobs run. To specify this image, you use the image keyword.
You can specify an additional image by using the services keyword. This additional image is used to create another container, which is available to the first container - they share a network. The two containers have access to one another and can communicate when running the job." GitLab Documentation

Our job uses the services option to run a container with the Docker In Docker (dind) image. This image contains the Docker Deamon (aka Docker Server). The Deamon performs docker build tasks, for example. 
~~~yaml
some-job:
  image: docker:27.0.2-cli-alpine3.20
  services:
     - docker:27.0.2-dind-alpine3.20.  <-----|  Deamon/Server
  stage: build                               |
  script:                                    |
     - docker build -t ______ .      <-------|  Client
~~~

-------------------------------

Returning to VS Code, we can now push our pipeline changes to the GitLab repository and trigger a pipeline execution as follows:
~~~bash
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m "Added Image build and publish job to pipeline."
$ git push origin main
~~~
In the GitLab browser tab, from the sidebar select Build -> Pipelines. Wait for the current pipeline execution to complete. Switch to the browser tab that's showing your Docker Hub account, and select the Repositories tab in the page header. A new entry for your 'profile-app' image should appear in the list of repositories. The pipeline push the image to your account. 

[dockeri]: https://hub.docker.com/_/docker