## Docker basics.

Start the Docker Desktop server application. Its GUI client should indicate no containers are currently running.

In VS Code, open an integrated terminal tab (alternatively, open a standard OS terminal window) and type the command:

```bash
$ docker ps
```

This command confirms thst no containers are currently running. Let's download an app image from Docker Hub; the Redis caching and NoSQL database application:

```bash
$ docker pull redis:7.2.5
```

Confirm it downloaded to your local image registry using the following command:

```bash
$ docker images        (List all images)
```

Start a container to run this image:

```bash
$  docker run -d --name my-redis  redis:7.2.5
```

The run command has many options, including:

- -d - detached mode.
- --name - the custom name for the container instance (my-redis). Docker auto-generates a name if this is omitted.

List all running containers:

```bash
$ docker ps
```

The response should look similar to the following:

```bash
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE         COMMAND                  CREATED         STATUS         PORTS      NAMES
2448b26dc40f   redis:7.2.5   "docker-entrypoint.s…"   3 minutes ago   Up 3 minutes   6379/tcp   my-redis
```

Check the logs generated inside the container by the Redis server when it started up::

```bash
$ docker logs my-redis
```

Logs are useful when debugging your own image's source code or configuring published ones.

Stop the container:

```bash
$ docker stop my-redis
$ docker ps
$ docker logs my-redis
```

The logs command shows how the Redis server reacted to this instruction. Restart the same container:

```bash
$ docker start my-redis
$ docker ps
```

We can have multiple instances of the same application running in parallel - the containers are completely isolated. Type the following command:

```bash
$  docker run -d --name my-second-redis  redis:7.2.5
```

Confirm both containers are running:

```bash
$ docker ps
```

Play with the two containers:

```bash
$ docker stop my-redis
$ docker ps        (Only running containers are listed)
$ docker ps -a     (All containers are listed)
$ docker start my-redis
$ docker ps      (Both containers are now running)
```

To completely remove a container:

```bash
$ docker stop my-redis.    (It's better to stop a container before removing it)
$ docker rm my-redis
$ docker ps -a
```
