### Exercise.

Clone this repository:
~~~bash

~~~
It's a simple React app for managing ToDos and uses the Vite frontend tool (an alternative to Create React App). 

A React app can be run in development mode or production mode. The former is suitable when developing the app, and the latter is appropriate for deployment. Docker images are specifically for deployment environments.

To run the ToDo app in development mode, type the following commands:
~~~bash
$ npm install
$ npm run dev
~~~
In the browser, navigate to the localhost URL provided in the response to the run command, e.g. http://localhost:5173/

To run the ToDo app in production mode, we must:

Build a static version of the code.
Install a web server to host the static website. NGINX is probably too powerful; the [serve][https://www.npmjs.com/package/serve] server would be better (or similar alternatives).  
Run the web server, pointing it at the static website.

Type the following command sequence:
~~~bash
$ npm install.     (Just for completeness.)
$ npm run build  (Creates a dist folder with the static version of the app)
 $ npm install --no-save serve.  (The serve web server is installed in node_modules/.bin)
 $ ./node_modules/.bin/serve ./dist
~~~
In the browser, navigate to http://localhost:3000/.

To share our ToDo app with others but not require them to install the Node platform, we should build a Docker image.  In the base folder, create the file Dockerfile and paste in the following:
~~~
FROM node:20-alpine

RUN mkdir -p /home/app
WORKDIR /home/app
# Copy all the project's files to /home/app, except those listed in .dockerignore
COPY . .

# To be completed
~~~
__You are required__ to complete the Dockerfile. Then, build an image of the app using the command:
~~~bash
$ docker build -t todoapp:1.0 .
~~~
Finally, run a container for your image and access the app from a browser tab.

------------------------

Tip: To run multiple commands in a Docker image at build time, use the RUN directive as follows:
~~~
RUN  command1 && \
        command2 && \
        command3
~~~
