## Demo App 1 Setup.

From the command line, type the following command:
~~~bash
$ docker pull mongo:8.0-rc       (An image containing the MongoDB database server)
$ docker pull mongo-express:1.0-20-alpine3.19       (An image containing a web-based MongoDB admin application)
$ docker network create mongo-network
~~~
The last command creates a virtual network named mongo-network (the network's name is arbitrary). To confirm the creation, type the command:
~~~bash
$ docker network ls
~~~
As well as our new network, Docker creates some default networks at start-up, e.g. bridge and host. These virtual networks have a driver (or type) - the default type is bridge. Other types include overlay, host, macvlan, etc. Every container is automatically attached to a network, which is the network named bridge by default - its type/driver is bridge. A bridge (type) network is assigned a IP address subnet range and a gateway to the internet. Each container added to a bridge network is assigned an IP address from the subnet range - this is performed by a DHCP server available to Docker. Type the command:
~~~bash
$ docker network inspect mongo-network
~~~
Notice the config section of the JSON response:
~~~json
// 
Sample response
    "Config": [
        {
            "Subnet": "172.17.0.0/16",
            "Gateway": "172.17.0.1"
        }
    ]
~~~
Use the same command for the default bridge network interface (docker network inspect bridge).

Start a container for the MongoDB image:
~~~bash
$ docker run -d --net mongo-network \
    --name mongoDB  \
    -p 27017:27017 \
    -e MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME=admin \
    -e MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD=secret \
 mongo:8.0-rc
~~~
Points to note:
1. We can control the initialization of a container's environment variables using the -e option, as illustrated above. The variable names depend on the imagre's requirements, and these are documented on Docker Hub for public images. For example, go to [this page][mongov] and scroll to the Environment Variables section for details on the MongoDB image. Some image's environment variables are optional and have default values.
1. We are attaching the MongoDB container to the mongo-network virtual network. Docker creates a virtual ethernet interface for the container and links it to the network's virtual bridge/switch. Only containers attached to the  mongo-network network can communicate with this Mongo database container - see later.
1. Port 27017 is the default MongoDB port for client communication. Using Docker's port forwarding facility, we are mapping the container's port 27017 to the host computer's port 27017. This will allow non-containerized applications to interact with the database - see later.

Type the following command:
~~~bash
$ docker run -d --network mongo-network \
      --name mongo-express  \
      -p 8081:8081 \
      -e ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINUSERNAME=admin \
      -e ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINPASSWORD=secret \
      -e ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_SERVER=mongodb   \
    mongo-express:1.0-20-alpine3.19
~~~
Points to note:

1. The above container uses the same virtual network because it needs to connect to the Mongo database.
1. The ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_SERVER environment variable must be set to the __name of the container__ running the database server, i.e. mongoDB. Custom Docker bridge (type) networks (e.g. mongo-network) support DNS name resolution; this allows its containers to use container names instead of IP address to communicate. 
1. The ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINUSERNAME and ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINPASSWORD must match the credentials used by the MongoDB container. 
1. The mongo-express web application is listening for HTTP requests on port 8081. The -p option above maps the container port to the equivilant one on the host computer; this allows an external  web browser client to access the app.

To view the Mong-Express admin web application hosted by the second container, open a new browser tab at http://localhost:8081/. Login with the credentials *admin* for username and *pass* for password. The browser lists the databases managed by the MongoDB server running inside the first container. 

We must add a new database to the server using the web admin tool. In the browser, locate the text box at the top-right, enter the name `user-account` and click the Create Database button. 

------------------------------------

Before continuing with multi-container applications, lets look at some basic Docker networking. We will cover the topic in more detail in a later lab.

Examine the status of the mongo-network network by typing the command:
~~~bash
$ docker network inspect mongo-network
~~~
Notice the containers section of the JSON response:
~~~json
       "Containers": {
            "4421b2d2f2f1ae8f7bbad777f308a5c2b718a59db06531488d567083004a5ea5": {
                "Name": "mongo-express",
                "EndpointID": "6833c54b563974cf32f62f4308bac6d500ac40078cd4425384a3b5834a8c8d86",
                "MacAddress": "02:42:ac:12:00:03",
                "IPv4Address": "172.18.0.3/16",
                "IPv6Address": ""
            },
            "5010babf9a8dbdc28592a16e270acd6858347ce9f096009b5a30edae87bbc8a4": {
                "Name": "mongoDB",
                "EndpointID": "6bbd0907ca24aab5be8bbc93559782d35c04ae5566155d0116e4edd569061cd6",
                "MacAddress": "02:42:ac:12:00:02",
                "IPv4Address": "172.18.0.2/16",
                "IPv6Address": ""
            }
        },
~~~
It shows the IP address assigned to each container by Docker's DHCP server. The MacAddress property of a container corresponds to the virtual ethernet interface assigned to a container. Confirm the IP addresses with the command:
~~~bash
$ docker inspect mongoDB
~~~
Notice the Networks section of the response:
~~~json
    "Networks": {
        "mongo-network": {
            "IPAMConfig": null,
            "Links": null,
            "Aliases": [
                "5010babf9a8d"
            ],
            "NetworkID": "b2743273da17e22e0137e94ca2571f9fcc11a61ed433a1714c734071fbe585d7",
            "EndpointID": "6bbd0907ca24aab5be8bbc93559782d35c04ae5566155d0116e4edd569061cd6",
            "Gateway": "172.18.0.1",
            "IPAddress": "172.18.0.2",
            "IPPrefixLen": 16,
            "IPv6Gateway": "",
            "GlobalIPv6Address": "",
            "GlobalIPv6PrefixLen": 0,
            "MacAddress": "02:42:ac:12:00:02",
            "DriverOpts": null
        }
    }
~~~
More on Docker networking in a later lab. 

------------------------------------------

### Simple Web App.

Clone this repository:
~~~bash
$ git clone https://github.com/diarmuidoconnor/simple-profile-app
~~~
This application is a simple server-side rendering web app for updating the user-account database managed by our MongoDB server. Import the project into VS Code and create a file in the `app` folder called `.env` with the following content:
~~~
MONGO_USER='admin' 
MONGO_PASS='secret' 
MONGO_HOST='localhost'
MONGO_PORT=27017 
APP_HOST='localhost'
PORT=3000
~~~
For now, we will run this application outside Docker, but in a later lab we will "dockerize" it. In VS Code, open an integrated terminal and type the commands:
~~~bash
$ npm  install
$ cd app
$ node server.js
~~~
Complete this sequence in the browser:
1. Open a new browser tab at http://localhost:3000/. 
1. Click the Add/Edit Profile button. 
1. In the web form, enter your name, email address, and list of interests, and then click the Update Profile button. 

This sequence should result in the web app writing a record to a table named users in our user-account database. To confirm this, switch to the browser tab that shows the Mongo Express application, click the View button beside the `user-account` database, and click the View button beside the `users` collection name (A collection in Mongo is similar to a table in relational database). The page shows the details of the user profile you entered on the web form. 

There are two communication flows working in this case study:

1. Simple Web app to MongoDB container - This is over the regular localhost network managed by the host computer itself. The app communicates with the MongoDB server using the host's port 27017, which is mapped/forwarded to the MongoDB container's port 27017. 
1. Mongo Express container to MongoDB container - This is via the Docker-managed network we created - the bridge network named mongo-network.

In future labs, we will return to this multi-container app to demonstrate other aspects of the Docker platform and other topics on this module. For convenience, we will refer to it as the __User Profile Web App__.


[mongov]: https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo