## Agile Software Practice - Assignment (Repeat CA 2025).


__Objective:__ Demonstrate your knowledge of CI/CD practice by creating a pipeline for a Web App using the GitLab CI platform. 

__Completion date:__24/8/2025.

__Weighting:__ 100%.

__Context:__ Download [this archive][start]. It's a ToDo app developed with the React framework. 

__Deliverables:__

1. A text file (assignment2.txt) containing:
   + The URL of your GitLab repository. 
   + The URL of the YouTube video demonstrating the execution of your pipeline. 
   
Notes:
+ The repo README is the documentation of the work you have carried out and must be complete and accurate. A template will be provided later.
+ Your repo's Git log must have a clear, understandable and coherent history of the work on this assignment. The commit message must summarize the work performed (What task were you working on?) at each stage.


### CI/CD pipeline.

__You are required__ to create a CI/CD pipeline for the ToDo app that include the following stages:
+ Build
+ Package
+ Staging
+ E2E Testing
+ Deployment

The Build stage will create a static, distributable (deployable) form of the app to ensure it is ready for packaging. The command sequence to complete this task is:
~~~bash
$ npm install
$ npm run build
$ npx serve -s ./dist  -l 3000 &
$ curl http://localhost | grep ToDO
~~~

The package stage will dockerize and publish the app to your Docker Hub account. 

The Staging stage deploys the app for testing purposes. The deployment will be to a pre-configured AWS EC2 instance, and port 3000 will be set for browser access. 

The E2E Testing stage will run a set of Cypress tests against the staged version of the app.

The Deployment stage deploys the app to an EC2 instance for production and sets port 80 for browser access. This stage must distinguish between continuous delivery and continuous deployment. Continuous deployment should be applied when a commit to the 'main' branch of the repository occurs. When a commit to the 'develop' branch occurs, continuous delivery should be applied instead. 

### Grading Spectrum.

__Good (40-50%):__ Packaging and Staging stages completed.

__Excellent (50-70%):__ E2E testing and Deployment (Continuous Deployment) completed.

__Outstanding (70-85%):__ Build stage and Continuous Delivery and Continuous Deployment.

__Independent Learning (85%+):__ Deployment of the production app to the [Vercel][vercel] platform (instead of the EC2 platform)

--------------------------

__Notes:__ To run Cypress tests inside a GitLab CI/CD pipeline, see the relevant YAML excerpts below: 

~~~yaml
stages:
   - stabeA
   - stageB

variables:
   npm_config_cache: "$CI_PROJECT_DIR/.npm"
   CYPRESS_CACHE_FOLDER: "$CI_PROJECT_DIR/cache/Cypress"
   . . . other variables . . . 

cache:
   key:
     files:
        - package.json
   paths:
      - .npm
      - cache/Cypress

jobX:
  stage: stageB
  image:  cypress/browsers:node18.12.0-chrome106-ff106
  script:
     - echo "Run tests in headless mode"
     - npx cypress run --browser chrome ... other options ...
~~~


Note also that the --config option can be used to override the default  configuration settings for Cypress (i.e. the cypress.config.js) at runtime, i.e.

~~~bash
$ npx cypress run --config '{"someKey":"newValue"}'
~~~

[vercel]: https://vercel.com/
[start]: ./img/start.zip